---
layout: page
<<<<<<< HEAD
title: April 23rd, 2019 Monthly Meeting
date: 2019-4-23
=======
title: April 23rd, 2019 Monthly Meeting
date: 2019-4-23
published: true
>>>>>>> upstream/master
---

** Agenda **

#### 7:00pm
    Intro / Networking

#### 7:15pm
**Visualization Lightning Talk - Evan**

  * Great talk about taking the time to look at how we visualize data.
  * Look into https://www.ft.com/chart-doctor for some cool data visualizations
  * Discussed Gestalt Principle https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Principles_of_grouping

#### 7:20pm
**Intro OSD - Isaac**

  * Tuesday meetings (3rd Tuesday of the month) is going to have a guest speaker and some organizational stuff
  * 1st Tuesday of the month - is Hack Night/Collab Night

#### 7:25pm
**Group Introductions**

* Everyone in the room introduced themselves, what they do and policies they are interested in

#### 7:31pm
**Project Updates - Nikola**

**Meals Count**: Program from the USDA to help fund schools to give free meals for students based on student data. Algorithm to optimize a given school district to maximize the percentage of students who can benefit.
Instead of a self serve app where schools upload their own data, we are now reaching out through a Non-profit to reach out to schools to create buy in.
Opportunities to clean up and optimize the algorithm/UI.  -contact Nikolaj

**GitHub cleanup**: Cleaning out the current GitHub and figuring out what needs to be archived and what is fine as is. Also making sure there is a project pipeline.
Cleanup going to happen this Friday at a coffee shop. Talk to Nikolaj if interested

**Collab/Hack Night happening May 7th**. (First Tuesday of the month) Bring your laptop and get ready to collaborate.

**Peer to Peer Library Lending**: A system for community members to share library books with each other
Scheduling a meeting with the Project Owner for more insight. Contact Nikolaj if interested

#### 7:36pm
**Talk History of Open Data - Almis Udrys**  
Deputy chief of staff for the City of San Diego for Innovation and Policy Department

Contact: Audrys@sandiego.gov

Open Data San Diego’s biggest issues:
1. Homelessness
2. Housing
3. Sustainability

Biggest Accomplishment: [Get it done](https://www.sandiego.gov/get-it-done)

  * An application that allows citizens to report problems around the city.
  * “Civic participation has skyrocketed (40% increase in reports). And despite the spike in volume, the level of how long it has taken has slightly decreased. So volume almost doubled but response time has actually decreased”

Public service is not easy, it is a nightmare because the pressures are huge and it is much easier to quit and work in the private sector. It has to be a passion because you have to be careful because you are imposing onto others and not making their jobs easier.

Talked about using Open San Diego volunteers to teach the community how the San Diego government works. Like how the New York Code for America Brigade Deck of Cards that have paid staff that could be a vehicle for education

“The biggest problem for open data is the silos for the data.  You need coordination/some sort of central authority”

“One of the things you do in policy is plant seeds. Sometimes it takes 2-5 years to germinate and happen. So plant ideas in people.”

#### 8:02pm
**Q&A**

  Q: Is the getitdone app the proper way to engage users to see how cash is being spent?

  A: The app can do a lot but it can’t do everything. They would have to take a look at this

  Q: How does a group like Open San Diego fit in with the City of San Diego?

  A: The more people that are watching and evaluating solutions the better. Always willing to help with any projects but make sure everything is coordinated.

  Q: Should we be submitting new project ideas for the city through getitdone?

  A: No, there isn't a good way to do it through that platform. Members can work with the Brigade Captain and then they can coordinate with Almis to see how they can get the project moving. Right now the biggest issues are Homelessness, Housing, and Sustainability.

  Q: Was there a big change between what we assumed was public opinion vs the data that was gathered?

  A: So far the response for Clairemont tool hit the target goal of 5000 responses. Right now there isn’t a metric for this information but we hope so.

  Q: It seems that the city doesn't respond well to outside advocates who are trying to help and improve the city.

  A: When the portal was created it cost about 60k and then an open source version was used. There should be a better way to communicate. It would be great to create a team of teachers that could help advocates know our process and what issues we are facing. In order to do that we need to know which departments are most important

  Q: GovOps recently came out, what problems do you see with the state of California going forward?

  A: Problem is with silos, LA has 4 different open data portals. It is good to have innovation but there should also be coordination.

  Q: How do you prioritize the different project portfolios for the city?

  A: It's dynamic, we didn't want to impose on people, we wanted departments to view us as partners. If there are ideas on how projects could be prioritized that would be great.

  Q: You touched on the history of what was built. When the administration change comes up for the city, what can we guarantee will still be here?

  A: Technically a mayor can dissolve anything. That being said it is difficult to dissolve these programs, PandA is apart of a municipality so it is not as easy to dissolve.

  Q: Would it make sense to have a committee on data and privacy?

  A: It is a good idea but we would need to determine if this is a temporary committee.

#### 8:40pm
**SteeerCo**

  * Voted on current roles

#### 8:45pm
Breakout and network

#### 9:00pm
End session
