---
layout: page
title: May 21st, 2019 Monthly Meeting
date: 2019-5-21
published: true
pinned: false
---

#### 7:00pm
  Networking
#### 7:10pm - Announcements:
  * Code for America Summit is next week - join slack and hop on the channel
  * Next hack night is June 4th
    * During this hack night individuals from the DMV will be coming by. Their goal is to revamp the DMV website.
#### 7:17pm - Presentations
AAPI (Asian America and Pacific Islanders) - Civic engagement through technology

**Consulting for Good by Daniel Suh and Alex Tran**

  * Intro -  Purpose is to maximize the social impact of our nonprofit partners
  * Completed Projects
    * City of LA - Identity LA: Marketing analytics for audience engagement analytics for asian cultural festival
    * International Justice Mission (IJM) - Optimize enterprise performance to combat human trafficking
    * Liberty in North Korea - Designing a donor-centric outreach model
    * Conference on Asian Pacific American Leadership (CAPAL) - Developing business metrics to impact asses three decades of impact
  * How is this be doing? Through their organization they are finding consultants to are driven to contribute towards social good
  * Why does this matter? Others will see leaders that they can relate to which promotes civic engagement.

**Convoy District Partnership BH Kim**

  * Convoy district partnership is about creating a cultural destination for San Diego
  * Purpose is to make Convoy the next place to be in San Diego
  * Major Accomplishments
    * San Diego first night market. Next night market is July 26<sup>th</sup>-28<sup>th</sup>
    * Redistricting of council seats in San Diego - Advocated to redraw lines
    * Creating more of a walkable neighborhood
  * Goals going forward
    * Create a successful night market
    * Community plan update
    * Create a gateway sign (Like North Park, University Heights)
    * Create a Municipal Assessment District (MAD)
  * What are the opportunities for the volunteers here?
    * Contribute to the census
    * Open to creative ideas for members
    * Performing an interactive survey
  * Crowdfunding - There is an idea to perform crowdfunding for the night market. They are looking for individuals to help with a background in crowdfunding.
  * They are looking for more people to join

#### 8:08pm - Closing announcements, networking

#### 8:15pm - SteerCo meeting
* Reviewed and finalized Strategic Plan for 2019
* Discussed upcoming Meetups and Agenda
  * June meetup presentations will be summary of interesting talks from Code for America Summit
  * July meetup Marissa will coordinate with Maksim Pecherskiy to present
* SteerCo will meet at 6pm before the regular Meetup in the library to handle any SteerCo items
* During Q4 we were thinking of doing a civic event to get the community engaged. Still discussing and plannign

#### 9:00pm - End session
